
________________________________________________________________________________
<!-- @import "[TOC]" {cmd="toc" depthFrom=2 depthTo=6 orderedList=false} -->
________________________________________________________________________________
# Flux and Redux

Redux is an evolution of the concepts introduced by Flux. Having a general
understanding of Flux will assist you in learning Redux.

When you finish this article, you should be able to:

* Describe the relationship between Redux and Flux
* Describe the three principles that Redux abides by
* Describe the Redux data cycle

## What is Flux?

Flux is a front-end application architecture Facebook developed to use with
React. Flux is not a library or framework. Flux is simply a pattern in which to
structure one’s application. It doesn’t even need to be used with React! Flux
provides unidirectional data flow, which affords more predictability than one
might encounter when using other application design patterns.

![flux]

### Actions

An action begins the flow of data in Flux. An action is a simple object that at
a minimum contains a `type`. An action’s `type` indicates the type of change to
be performed on the application’s state. An action may contain additional data
(the "payload") that’s necessary for changing the application’s former state to
its next one.

### Dispatcher

The dispatcher is a mechanism for distributing (or "dispatching") actions to a
Flux application’s store. The dispatcher is little more than a registry of
callback functions into the store. Redux (the implementation of Flux we’ll use
at App Academy) consolidates the dispatcher into a single `dispatch()` function.

### Store

The store represents the entire state of the application. It’s also responsible
for updating the state of the application appropriately whenever it receives an
action. It does so by registering with the dispatcher a callback function that
receives an action. This callback function uses the action’s type to invoke the
proper function to change the application’s state. After the store has changed
state, it “emits a change,” i.e. the store passes the new state to any views
(explanation incoming) that have registered listeners (callbacks) to it.

### View

A view is a unit of code that’s responsible for rendering the user interface. To
complete the Flux pattern, a view listens to change events emitted by the store.
When a change to the application’s data layer occurs, a view can respond
appropriately, such as by updating its internal state and triggering a
re-render.

A view can create actions itself, e.g. in user-triggered events. If a user marks
a todo as complete, a view might call a function that would dispatch an action
to toggle the todo’s state. Creating an action from the view turns our Flux
pattern into a unidirectional loop.

![flux-loop]

Here the original action might (for example) result from an asynchronous request
to fetch todos from the database with a success callback to dispatch our action
to receive those todos and update the application’s state accordingly. It's a
common pattern in Flux to dispatch an action that populates the initial state of
the application, with further modifications coming from the client.

## Redux

Redux is a library (distributed as an npm package) that facilitates a particular
implementation of Flux. A Redux loop behaves slightly differently than a vanilla
Flux loop, but the general concepts remain the same. Redux abides by three
principles:

1. **Single Source of Truth**: The entire state of the application is stored in
   a single JavaScript object in a single store. This object is commonly
   referred to as a “state tree” because its values often contain or are objects
   themselves.
2. **State is Read-Only**: The only way to change the state is to dispatch an
   action. This principle ensures that our Redux loop is never short-circuited
   and change of state remains single-threaded.
3. **Only Pure Functions Change State**: Pure functions known as “reducers”
   receive the previous state and an action and return the next state. They
   return new state objects instead of mutating previous state. Read
   [more][pure-functions] about what makes a function pure.

![redux-loop]

As you've probably already surmised, `React` will be our view layer.

> **Note:** Middleware is an ecosystem of utilities that augments the
> functionality of `dispatch()`. Among other things, it allows for asynchronous
> requests in a Redux application.

You'll learn more about each part in the Redux loop in this lesson.

## What you learned

In this article, you learned about the relationship between Redux and Flux. You
also learned about the three principles that Redux abides by and the Redux data
cycle.

[redux-loop]: https://assets.aaonline.io/fullstack/react/assets/redux.gif
[pure-functions]: https://medium.com/javascript-scene/master-the-javascript-interview-what-is-a-pure-function-d1c076bec976#.lfv7bgqco
[flux-loop]: https://appacademy-open-assets.s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/fullstack/react/assets/flux-loop.png
[flux]: images/redux-flux.pngimages/redux-flux.png____________________________
<!-- @import "[TOC]" {cmd="toc" depthFrom=2 depthTo=6 orderedList=false} -->
________________________________________________________________________________
# Flux and Redux

Redux is an evolution of the concepts introduced by Flux. Having a general
understanding of Flux will assist you in learning Redux.

When you finish this article, you should be able to:

* Describe the relationship between Redux and Flux
* Describe the three principles that Redux abides by
* Describe the Redux data cycle

## What is Flux?

Flux is a front-end application architecture Facebook developed to use with
React. Flux is not a library or framework. Flux is simply a pattern in which to
structure one’s application. It doesn’t even need to be used with React! Flux
provides unidirectional data flow, which affords more predictability than one
might encounter when using other application design patterns.

![flux]

### Actions

An action begins the flow of data in Flux. An action is a simple object that at
a minimum contains a `type`. An action’s `type` indicates the type of change to
be performed on the application’s state. An action may contain additional data
(the "payload") that’s necessary for changing the application’s former state to
its next one.

### Dispatcher

The dispatcher is a mechanism for distributing (or "dispatching") actions to a
Flux application’s store. The dispatcher is little more than a registry of
callback functions into the store. Redux (the implementation of Flux we’ll use
at App Academy) consolidates the dispatcher into a single `dispatch()` function.

### Store

The store represents the entire state of the application. It’s also responsible
for updating the state of the application appropriately whenever it receives an
action. It does so by registering with the dispatcher a callback function that
receives an action. This callback function uses the action’s type to invoke the
proper function to change the application’s state. After the store has changed
state, it “emits a change,” i.e. the store passes the new state to any views
(explanation incoming) that have registered listeners (callbacks) to it.

### View

A view is a unit of code that’s responsible for rendering the user interface. To
complete the Flux pattern, a view listens to change events emitted by the store.
When a change to the application’s data layer occurs, a view can respond
appropriately, such as by updating its internal state and triggering a
re-render.

A view can create actions itself, e.g. in user-triggered events. If a user marks
a todo as complete, a view might call a function that would dispatch an action
to toggle the todo’s state. Creating an action from the view turns our Flux
pattern into a unidirectional loop.

![flux-loop]

Here the original action might (for example) result from an asynchronous request
to fetch todos from the database with a success callback to dispatch our action
to receive those todos and update the application’s state accordingly. It's a
common pattern in Flux to dispatch an action that populates the initial state of
the application, with further modifications coming from the client.

## Redux

Redux is a library (distributed as an npm package) that facilitates a particular
implementation of Flux. A Redux loop behaves slightly differently than a vanilla
Flux loop, but the general concepts remain the same. Redux abides by three
principles:

1. **Single Source of Truth**: The entire state of the application is stored in
   a single JavaScript object in a single store. This object is commonly
   referred to as a “state tree” because its values often contain or are objects
   themselves.
2. **State is Read-Only**: The only way to change the state is to dispatch an
   action. This principle ensures that our Redux loop is never short-circuited
   and change of state remains single-threaded.
3. **Only Pure Functions Change State**: Pure functions known as “reducers”
   receive the previous state and an action and return the next state. They
   return new state objects instead of mutating previous state. Read
   [more][pure-functions] about what makes a function pure.

![redux-loop]

As you've probably already surmised, `React` will be our view layer.

> **Note:** Middleware is an ecosystem of utilities that augments the
> functionality of `dispatch()`. Among other things, it allows for asynchronous
> requests in a Redux application.

You'll learn more about each part in the Redux loop in this lesson.

## What you learned

In this article, you learned about the relationship between Redux and Flux. You
also learned about the three principles that Redux abides by and the Redux data
cycle.

[redux-loop]: https://assets.aaonline.io/fullstack/react/assets/redux.gif
[pure-functions]: https://medium.com/javascript-scene/master-the-javascript-interview-what-is-a-pure-function-d1c076bec976#.lfv7bgqco
[flux-loop]: https://appacademy-open-assets.s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/fullstack/react/assets/flux-loop.png
[flux]: images/redux-flux.png
